>> Jafar Husain: I wanna let you guys know
ahead of time this is actually a very
challenging problem.
And after this we're gonna be doing
a problem that's a lot more like
the types of problems you're
gonna be running into day to day.
But I like picking a really hard problem
so we can see how, really seemingly
pretty tough problems can all be broken
down into really small building blocks.
And so a lot of the challenge of RX isn't
learning the small simple functions.
Those are so simple to understand
you can really memorize them.
Really the key to becoming a really
effective programmer with RX is
a lot of practice,
of taking big, big problems and
figuring out how to decompose
them into smaller bits.
So today,
I'm curious actually what you guys think.
What are some, since you tried this,
what are some of the harder aspects
of this particular problem?
What did you find challenging or what
are some of the outstanding questions you
have, for
those who didn't manage to solve it?
>> Speaker 2: Understanding when
a task starts and completes?
>> Jafar Husain: Understanding
when a task starts and completes.
Actually, I think this is probably,
single-handedly,
the most challenging part about this.
Because the reality is,
all of these represent next when
we get the inner observable.
And then we turn around and
subscribe to it.
And all of these represent completes.
But almost every single function that I've
taught you guys today operates on this,
right?
When data is nexted inside of these
observables, we don't actually know of any
function at the moment that
sort of is able to operate and
get a callback when a next or, excuse me,
when a subscribe or a complete is issued.
And so one of the challenges is
figuring out how we solve that problem.
>> Jafar Husain: So before we get to
that though, I'm gonna make a simple
observation, which is let's take a look at
all the data inside of these observables.
Do we care about them?
Do we care about this data?
>> Jafar Husain: No, not really, right?
It doesn't really have all of
the changes correspond to subscribe and
completes here, right?
Subscribe and completes,
so how do we go from this,
and I break this down just to this.
>> Jafar Husain: How do we get
rid of the data inside of?
Tell me how we go that first step.
>> Speaker 2: We could filter it.
>> Jafar Husain: Filter it, okay, so
go tasks.filter, task, and now what?
>> Jafar Husain: So when I run
filter over tasks, every function,
the filter function's gonna get
called with each of these inner
observables cuz tasks is
a two-dimensional observable, right?
On next observables.
So what are we gonna filter on then?
>> Speaker 2: Maybe we
would want instead map and
then filter on each individual task?
>> Jafar Husain: Right,
because if you think about it,
we're actually running a map operation on
the outer observable because we're trying
to transform each item inside of
the observable into another item.
So actually the outer
observable we wanna map over,
just as if I was mapping over a bunch
of numbers and adding one to them.
So let's switch this to map,
and now that we have
mapped over each task, and we have each
task, how do we wanna transform that task?
>> Jafar Husain: So now we've got
each one of these individual tasks.
How do we want to transform them
to make sure that they have no
data inside of them?
>> Speaker 2: Just task.filter false.
>> Jafar Husain: Yes,
this is one of my favorite tricks.
Just doing this because if
the function always returns false,
then all the data inside goes bye bye,
right?
So that's all well and
good, now we've got this.
How do we get closer to where we wanna be?
Well, the big mental leap
that we need to make here
is I wanna be able to go from this.
Because we can't count completes or
subscribe using the methods
that we've learned today.
We want to be able to, what if we
could insert data at the front and
at the end of the observable, maybe put in
-1 and 1 at the beginning and
ends of the observable.
If I had an arbitrary observable and
I wanted to put 1 at the front of it,
how would I do that?
>> Speaker 3: You could use start with?
>> Jafar Husain: Start with,
yeah, start with.
That's a more specific, so I could take an
observable and I could go start with and
I can pass some value, absolutely.
That's actually a more specific version of
concat, which I showed you guys earlier.
So remember our observable.concat?
>> Jafar Husain: Right, if I wanna put
something at the front of the Observable,
I can just concat an Observable
with one value to the front.
And then I could contact an Observable
of one value to the end.
I like this trick.
So,
>> Jafar Husain: Help me out here, guys.
How am I gonna turn this,
>> Jafar Husain: Into this?
>> Jafar Husain: We'll take
what we have here so far.
>> Speaker 3: Is this where
we use scan [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Jafar Husain: Scan?
Interesting, well, at the moment all I'm
trying to do is, I'm just gonna try and
transform this observable
into this observable.
So I don't think we need scan yet.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, map then?
>> Jafar Husain: That's also a good guess.
But if we map over an empty observable,
what do we always get?
>> Speaker 3: Well, a map with
inside of it and a concat operation.
>> Jafar Husain: Gotcha, so
we already have this map right here.
So if we do this,
>> Jafar Husain: And you're right,
starts with would be
a shorter way of doing this.
There might be,
maybe there's an ends with also,
in which case we might be able
to do this slightly differently.
It might even be more terse, but
at the moment, I'm just gonna do this.
>> Jafar Husain: And
now we've got this, right?
So first we took every task inside, we got
rid of all the goo, all the data, and then
we further transformed it by adding
a -1 at the front and a 1 at the end.
So now, any ideas what we wanna do?
>> Speaker 2: I was thinking we could
use distincts with, or distinct, sorry,
distinct latest to detect when
an Observable starts events?
>> Jafar Husain: So it sounds like
you're saying distinctUntilChanged.
Is that what you mean?
>> Speaker 2: I think so.
Yeah, that's what I meant.
>> Jafar Husain: Got you, so
quick reminders to everybody
what distinctUntilChanged does.
>> Jafar Husain: Make
this full screen here,
>> Jafar Husain: Or not.
>> Jafar Husain: All right, so
distinctUntilChanged() takes multiple
successive values in a stream and
just filters out the subsequent
successive values.
So if you have the same value
multiple times like 5 here,
we just suppress the subsequent values
that are the same as the previous value.
So help me understand how do you
wanna use distinctUntilChanged here?
>> Speaker 2: I see.
I was forgetting one step.
So first, I would merge them together.
>> Jafar Husain: Right, so here's the
trick because now that we've got a value
at the beginning and at the end,
now we don't need the structure anymore.
We can get rid of
the two-dimensional observable and
we can flatten it, absolutely right.
So I'm gonna throw a merge all on there.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm gonna pay careful
attention to my formatting because
the thing about O Observable is that often
you find that we make, let's face it,
big fat expressions, right?
But if you're careful about how
you format your expressions,
they can be just as readable
as structured code.
So here I have, you can see that
map is transforming the result or
merge all is transforming the result
of the map, and so on and so forth.